We're now going to go back over to our common module and inside of all the different events we have
created inside of here.
We're going to make sure that we communicate the version number inside of these things.
So, for example, in the case of ticket updated, along with some information about the ticket that
was just updated, we're also going to include this ticket's version number, and that is what is going
to eventually help us make sure that we process these events in the correct order.
Before we add in this version number, however, I want to try to answer a question that you might be
asking yourself right now, and that question might be something like this When should we increment
or include the version number of a record with an event?
Should it be all the time?
Should every single event that ever talks about some record always increment a version number or always
include it?
The answer is no.
We are only going to worry about incrementing or including the version number of a record whenever it
is the primary service responsible for a record that is emitting an event to describe that record either
being created, updated or destroyed.
Now, this rule alone by itself doesn't really make a lot of sense and I don't think really answers
this question.
So let me just show you a hypothetical scenario back inside of that blog post application we worked
on much earlier inside this course.
And when we walk through this hypothetical scenario, I think you're going to understand this answer
a little bit better.
Okay.
So here's the blogpost application.
We're looking just at the comment service, moderation and query.
So remember how this thing worked.
Whenever a user came to the comment service to create a comment, we would emit an event of comment
created and that would go over to the moderation service and the query service.
The Moderation Service would then moderate the comment in some way and it would emit an event of comment
moderated that was only received by the comment service.
The comment service then processed that update event and it said, okay, I need to somehow moderate
this comment or handle the moderation event.
And it may have made a change to the content of the comment.
The comment service would then emit a follow up event of comment updated.
And that would go on down to the query service and the query service.
Then New OC.
This thing has been moderated.
We are all good to go.
That was the flow of events back inside of that blog post application.
So now I want to imagine what would happen if we did not follow this rule right here, if we said that
any old service can increment the version number of a record whenever it felt like it.
So here's what would happen.
We can have our common service, and we're going to imagine that this thing is going to publish this
comment created event, and it's going to include a version number by default, version zero.
So that's going to go over to the moderation service.
And query service.
Now the moderation service will once again do the moderation and then it's going to emit comment moderated.
And we're going to say for just a moment that we are not going to follow this rule.
So I'm going to show you what we should not do.
This is not what we want to do at all.
So we're going to say that when the moderation service kind of processes this comment, the Moderation
Service might think, Oh, well, I've kind of done some processing on this comment.
I've kind of updated it in some way.
So you know what?
I'm going to update the version number.
And again, that's not what we want, but let's just imagine it happens for a second.
So we'd put on a version number of one.
So now this event was processed only by the Common Service, remember, that was not processed by the
query service at all.
Now the comment service takes a look at that thing.
It says, okay, the comment was moderated.
I'm going to process this.
I'm going to say this comment has been moderated and then eventually emit the comment updated events
presumably as a part of the comment service processing common moderated.
It will presumably also see that it has a version number of one.
And so when Common Service emits comment updated, we're going to assume that in turn it decides to
take that version number, add one to it, and then emit that as the final update.
So instead of comment updated, we would imagine that this thing would have a version of two.
So now think about this solely from the query service perspective.
We can forget everything else that's going on here.
And just think about it from the service perspective.
The service has now seen a event of comet created and had a version of zero.
So record being created.
Fantastic.
Let's save that record internally inside a query service.
And now the next event that the query service would expect to see should have a version of one.
But that never comes because the record that tried to say, Hey, here's version one never got received
or processed by the query service.
And so the next event that this thing would receive would have a version of two, and the query service
would say, Oh, I'm missing out on version one, so I'm going to reject version two.
And not process it until I eventually receive an event of version one.
Well, naturally, it's never going to receive version one.
So the query service is now going to be stuck and never be able to process this event right here.
So all this could have been prevented if we followed this rule right here.
And we said that only the primary service responsible for record is going to be in charge of incrementing
a version number.
So if we apply that rule, we would have said that the common created event right here at the version
of Zero Moderation Service would have sent back comment moderated and it would have not included some
incremented version number.
It can include the version number.
No problem there.
But we would definitely not have this other service or this service that is not truly in charge of comments.
Increment the number.
Now the common service would receive moderated.
It would do some processing.
It would update common internally.
And now the new version number would be one common service would emit common updated.
We'd have a version of one and now query service can see version zero, version one, no problem less
process this right here, version one.
So long story short, we're going to make sure that only the service that is responsible for a record
like the actual definition, the true canonical definition of what a record is, is going to be responsible
for incrementing and including that incremented version number.
Now, again, this diagram here might be just a little bit misleading because I put the word include
it is okay if other services include the version number.
And as a matter of fact, we might want to have them include that version number, as we just saw here
with the moderation service.
Totally okay.
To include the version number.
What we're really talking about right now is whether or not this other service increments that version
number.
And the answer is no, not at all.
Okay.
I apologize for the long aside, but as I mentioned, I thought this might be a question you had, especially
as we go into our common module and start to include the version number on all these different events.
So let's take a pause right here and actually update this thing in just a moment.